Introduction to the paper : The Analysis Of The Movement Of Wild Tigers And Their Conservation In The Fragmented Land Area.

The Wild Tiger (Panthera TigrisTigris) is an iconic species in the faunal metpopulation web, and its conservation is involved in attempts to prevent the animal from becoming extinct and preserving it in its natural habitat. The turn of the 20th Century brought about a population score of 40000 tigers in Indian subcontinent, yet a census in the 21st Century revealed only an estimate of less than 1500 tigers with a 40% decline of the wilderness in the last decade, resulting in the disturbance of viable tiger habitats. The wild tiger population is under the threat of extinction across their whole range from habitat degradation and fragmentation, depletion in the prey animals, poaching to supply a large illegal global trade in their body parts, human disturbances and population migration. The major contibuting factors to these extinction processes are metapopulation dynamics and habitat fragmentation. Metapopulation dynamics is very helpful in wildlife management when it is concerned with the movement of individuals across the habitat patches. Determining the distributional patterns of gene flow of an endangered species in metapopulation, occupying a fragmented habitat, is crucial for conservation planning and developing effective conservation strategies. Wild Tigers are globally endangered and their populations are highly scattered and exist in a few isolated metapopulation across their range. Thus, whenever wildlife management concerns the migration of the tigers across structured habitat, its scale of operations will encompass the complete metapopulation and it becomes essential to understand the dynamics of metapopulation inhabiting fragmented environments (landscape patches). This is one of the main objectives of this paper, to strive to maintain the viable tiger populations in their natural environment.

Metapopulation of a biogeographical area is defined as the discrete set of populations of populations of the same or different species, and deals with the dynamic aspects of the consequences of migration and dissertation among the landscape-local population. In classical metapopulation ecology it assumes a fixed number of suitable habitats. The migration factors among patches are also very important to be considered in the model and are now integrated with the effects of habitat patch area and isolation on migration, colonization and population flux. Thus, metapopulation is a dynamic system of linked populations, as opposed to simply a patchy habitat, and many of its demographic processes are visible only through the filter of models. Regionally, many habitats have become so fragmented that isolated populations cannot be expected to last for long, hence long-term persistence can occur only via metapopulation dynamics. Metapopulation dynamics is based on Levins's classic metapopulation idea with extinction-prone populations in discrete habitat patches. Metapopulation dynamic processes can generate complex dynamics and spatial patterns without any environmental heterogeneity. In metapopulation, population migration is a recurrent rather than a unique event, which adds to the range of extinction processes, i.e., the rate of moving out from one patch to the moving in to another patch of island through a bio-geographical corridor, that have significance in nature and forces us to construct an increasingly mechanistic and biologically enriched view of migrations. The models of Metapopulation have been extended to interactive and non-interactive multispecies communities. Models of interacting meta-populations have been used to explain patterns in species, succession species, richness and composition and food web structure of communities. It has also given birth to models that can be used to predict the movement patterns of individuals, the dynamics of species, and the distributional patterns in multispecies communities.

Real fragmented landscapes typically show much spatial variation in patch areas and isolations. Individual and population processes and community patterns are generally influenced by patch area and isolation, and it is desirable to include these effects into metapopulation models, especially because such models can often be parameterized with data that are readily available from field studies (ref. 48, and I.H., J. Alho and A. Moilanen, manuscript in preparation). Adding the patch area and isolation effects into patch occupancy models of metapopulation dynamics has promoted a close link between modelling and field studies. Persistent anthropogenic impacts leading to relatively high pressure on the ecosystems owing to economic and allied developmental activities in this natural resource-rich region, even since pre-independence, colonial days continued into the present, and over a period spanning nearly two centuries, has resulted into continual degradation of forests in the landscape complex. Despite the various environmental issues faced, the country still has a rich and varied wildlife compared to Europe. Large and charismatic mammals are important for wildlife tourism in India, and several national parks and wildlife sanctuaries cater to these needs. Project Tiger, started in 1972, is a major effort to conserve the tiger and its habitats. Thus, in this landscape complex of significantly high conservation value, the task of maintaining the present tiger habitats and recolonizing the ones that had reported tiger occupancy in the recent past is primarily dependent on the existence of viable tiger corridors available for individual animals to use for dispersal and travelling within the complex. 

Throughout the paper, we shall treat the immediate past and present tiger occupancy sites equivocally as tiger habitat patches in the landscape.One of the main objectives of this paper, is to strive to maintain the viable tiger populations in their natural environment. Here, we aim to identify the most crucial habitat patches constituting wild tiger populations and the various distributional patterns, and surface their current community structure, in an attempt to divert efforts towards conserving them in their natural habitats itself. The underlying principle behind this is the fact of the structural definition of connectivity, migration, prey flux ultimately relies on the integrity of the vertices and the cooperating and conflicting factors in and around the habitat patches. Thus we aim to not only track and monitor the tiger movement, but also find out the possible factors that support and demote the tiger population of a region and also conserve the predators in their natural habitat.


